I am primarily famous online for my typing prowess. Since I am asked the same questions so frequently by various other typists, I figured I would provide substantive detail on my typing history here.

I taught myself to touch-type when I was about three years old on the old DOS program CPT Personal Touch-Typing. I attained a high speed of 83 wpm (415 cpm) at age six and 108 wpm (540 cpm) at age ten, which was faster than any of the other students or teachers at Smith Road Elementary. The faculty occasionally had me type things for them, most notably a poetry book featuring poems from all the second-grade students. In my teen years, I promptly forgot about typing applications, but continued to improve. My father installed a typing application on his computer when I was a teenager and by that point I was somewhat frequently exceeding the 199 wpm that was the maximum score that program would display. I spent no time actually studying the mechanics of typing and I don't entirely remember what I did to improve since it was not one of my focuses.

I discovered competitive typing by accident in the spring of 2008 while in grad school. My high school classmate Jordan Nott was using the Facebook Typing Speed application (which now appears to be defunct) and it appeared in one of his status updates. I did a few 30-second races most days for the next few months, and was rather startled to discover that I was consistently 20 wpm (100 cpm) faster than almost all the other users, with the primary exception of MIT computer science grad student Jelani Nelson, who was essentially my equal. Eventually, over the next year and a half, I was receiving a few Facebook friend requests a week from people intrigued by my typing and many PMs inviting me to other competitive typing sites.

In late 2009 and early 2010, I joined a multitude of typing sites and set records on most of them. That culminated in Jelani inviting me to compete in the Ultimate Typing Championship for a $2000 cash prize at the 2010 South by Southwest Interactive Conference. Jelani and I were roughly equal on that site and far faster than anyone else, each scoring peak speeds of over 200 wpm (1000 cpm). However, Jelani chose not to participate, so I won all three rounds of the semifinals for the Ultimate Typing Championship fairly easily, averaging 154 wpm (770 cpm) in the first round, 146 wpm (730 cpm) in the second round, and 157 wpm (785 cpm) in the third round. Former Harvard Crimson reporter Yifei Chen finished a fairly close second in all three rounds, but could not get time off work for the contest, so my competitor was instead then-Condé Nast programmer Nate Bowen.

The championship itself was a best-of-three match and I won both matches over Nate rather easily.

I beat Nate 163 wpm-110 wpm (815 cpm-550 cpm) on the following text in the first round of the finals:

That all our knowledge begins with experience there can be no doubt. For how is it possible that the faculty of cognition should be awakened into exercise otherwise than by means of objects which affect our senses, and partly of themselves produce representations, partly rouse our powers of understanding into activity, to compare, to connect, or to separate these, and so to convert the raw material of our sensuous impressions into a knowledge of objects, which is called experience? In respect of time, therefore, no knowledge of ours is antecedent to experience, but begins with it. But, though all our knowledge begins with experience, it by no means follows that all arises out of experience. For, on the contrary, it is quite possible that our empirical knowledge is a compound of that which we receive through impressions, and that which the faculty of cognition supplies from itself (sensuous impressions giving merely the occasion), an addition which we cannot distinguish from the original element given by sense, till long practice has made us attentive to, and skillful in separating it. It is, therefore, a question which requires close investigation, and is not to be answered at first sight whether there exists a knowledge altogether independent of experience, and even of all sensuous impressions? Knowledge of this kind is called a priori, in contradistinction to empirical knowledge, which has its sources a posteriori, that is, in experience. But the expression, "a priori," is not as yet definite enough, adequately to indicate the whole meaning of the question above started. For, in speaking of knowledge which has its sources in experience, we are wont to say that this or that may be known a priori, because we do not derive this knowledge immediately from experience, but from a general rule, which, however, we have itself borrowed from experience. Thus, if a man undermined his house, we say, "he might know a priori that it would have fallen;" that is, he needed not to have waited for the experience that it did actually fall. But still, a priori, he could not know even this much. For, that bodies are heavy, and, consequently, that they fall when their supports are taken away, must have been known to him previously, by means of experience. By the term "knowledge a priori," therefore, we shall in the sequel understand, not such as is independent of this or that kind of experience, but such as is absolutely so of all experience. Opposed to this is empirical knowledge, or that which is possible only a posteriori, that is, through experience. Knowledge a priori is either pure or impure. Pure knowledge a priori is that with which no empirical element is mixed up. For example, the proposition, "Every change has a cause," is a proposition a priori, but impure, because change is a conception which can only be derived from experience.

The second text was considerably harder as most of the special punctuation marks on the keyboard were included in a relatively awkward order to slow the typists down. I beat Nate 124 wpm-79 wpm (620 cpm-395 cpm) on this text to win the Ultimate Typing Championship. I am frequently criticized on YouTube for "only" winning with a speed of 124 wpm (620 cpm). I have typed more conventional texts at a rate of over 160 wpm (800 cpm) over a ten minute period in English, and recently exceeded 170 wpm (850 cpm) over a fifty-minute period on hi-games.net, as mentioned below. I believe it's understandable that Nate and I both typed this considerably more slowly than our usual pace:
